# [Codeforces Round 936 (Div. 2)](https://codeforces.com/contest/1946)

## [C. Tree Cutting](https://codeforces.com/contest/1946/problem/C)

**Solution:**

  We can binarily search the answer.

  And to judge the answer, we can greedily cut the tree.
  So soon as the size of subtree is greater or equal to the answer, then we cut it.

  The time complexity is O(nlogn).

## [D. Birthday Gift](https://codeforces.com/contest/1946/problem/D)

**Solution:**

  We can deal with `x` and array `a` bit by bit.

  For the i-th bit, we count all the numbers in the array `a` whose i-th bit is 1, and marks the number as `cnt`. 
  
  1. If `(x >> i & 1) == 1` and `(cnt & 1) == 1` : we don't need to split the array cause no matter how we split it, the i-th bit is always 1.
  2. If `(x >> i & 1) == 1` and `(cnt & 1) == 0` : 

    1. we can make this bit 0, and we don't need to consider the lower bit. We just need to merge the adcent two element of set `s`(s is the set contains every element whose i-th bit is 1). So we can calculate the answer in this condition. 
    2. we can make this bit 1, so we don't need to split it. 

  3. If `(x >> i & 1) == 0` and `(cnt & 1) == 1` : no answer.
  4. If `(x >> i & 1) == 0` and `(cnt & 1) == 0` : the same as `2.a`.

## [E. Girl Permutation](https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1946/E)

**Solution:**

  The condition is invalid only when $a_1 \ne 1$ or $b_{m_2} \ne n$ or $a_{m_1} \ne b_{1}$.

  And for the whole array, we can only determine where is $n$. It's position must be $a_{m_1}$. 

  But for the part before $n$, and the part after $n$, we only care about the relative difference in one part.

  We can choose $a_{m_1} - 1$ numbers from left $n - 1$ numbers. And the quantity of choice is $C_{n - 1}^{a_{m_1} - 1}$.
  And for the front part, the biggest element is determined, and it must be on the position of $a_{m - 1}$, so we need to choose $a_{m_1 - 1} - 1$ numbers in the front of $a_{m - 1}$.
  The quantity of choices is $C_{m_1 - 2}^{a_{m_1 - 1} - 1}$, we also find that the quantity of order between $a_{m_1 - 1}$ and $a_{m_1}$ is $(a_{m_1} - a_{m_1 - 1} - 1)!$.

  And we can do similarly to the left set.
