# 1941 ~ 1950
## [1942. CodeTON Round 8 (Div. 1 + Div. 2, Rated, Prizes!)](https://codeforces.com/contest/1942)

### [C2. Bessie's Birthday Cake (Hard Version)](https://codeforces.com/contest/1942/problem/C2)

**Solution:**

  Observing carefully, we can find out the most optimized strategy is to choose the point alternatively.

  And we set the point we used black, the others white.

  We count number of the single white point between black points is $k_1$, the number of black points is $k_2$, so the answer is $k_1 + k_2 - 2$.

  For two black points, if the white points between them is $d$, the maximum of the contribution is $\left \lceil \dfrac{d}{2} \right \rceil$.

  So we should choose the white points alternatively to maximize the answer with steps no more than y.

  But we can find that for the $d$ which is odd, it can make more contributions than $d$ which is even with the same steps.

  And for two ds which are both odd or both even, the smaller d is better.

  So we can find out all the ds, and sort them by the rules above. Then we can implement the strategy greedily.

### [D. Learning to Paint](https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1942/D)

**Solution:**

  Good problem.

  We can use DP to solve the problem. 

  And cause we want to solve the largest k values, so $f_i$ denotes the largest k status where the latest choosed pattern isn't bigger than i.

  When need to transform the $f_i$, we should choose the $j \in [1, i - 2]$. And there's a gap between $i$ and $j$.
  So $f_i = \max \{f[j] + a[j + 2][i]\}$.

  But we can know that there're $k$ statutes in $f_i$. So we can use the `priority_queue` to note it.

!!! note

    $f_i$ is a two-dimension array.
    
    But to simplified, I write down the transformation above denotes that for all $j \in [1, k]$, $f[i][j] = \max \{f[j] + a[j + 2][i]\}$
 
  We can put the first $i - 2$ of f array's top to the priority queue Q.

  Then we should repeat the performance below for k times:

  1. pop the top of Q, and find where the top element belong to.
  2. put the adjacent element of the top in that f array.

  Finally, the answer is the first element in $f_n$.

  We can find all the status can be covered in our transformations, so the dp is correct.

### [E. Farm Game](https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1942/E)

**Solution:**

  Good problem.

  **Game theory + combinatorics**

  Let's suppose $a_1 < b_1 < a_2 < b_2 < ... < a_n < b_n$.

  ($b_1 < a_1 < b_2 < a_2 < ... < b_n < a_n$ can be the same.)

  Observing carefully, we can find the first hand will lose if all $b_i - a_i - 1 \equiv 0 \pmod{2}$ 

  So the winning planning is all planning substract losing planning.

  But how to get losing planning? We set $\sum (b_j - a_j - 1) = i$.

  Then we can find how many choices to fix $a_j$, it's $\binom{l - n - i}{n}$.

  And for the length of each $b_i - a_i$, it's like put the partition in balls, where can be empty during two partitions.
  The answer is $\binom{n - 1 + i / 2}{n - 1}$.

!!! tip

    $i / 2$ can satisfied that every number between partitions is even.

  And the total losing planning is $\sum \binom{n - 1 + i}{n - 1} \times \binom{l - n - i}{n}$.


## [1943. Codeforces Round 934 (Div. 1)](https://codeforces.com/contest/1943)

### [B. Non-Palindromic Substring](https://codeforces.com/contest/1943/problem/B)

**Solution:**

  If a string is not k-th good, the all substring of length k is palindromic.

  So [i ... j] and [i + 1 ... j + 1] is palindromic.

  And in that case, if k is odd, we can know that 

  $$
    a_i = a_{i + 1} = a_{i + 2} = ... = a_j
  $$

  If k is even, we can know that,

  \begin{align}
    a_i = a_{i + 2} = a_{i + 4} = ... \newline
    a_{i + 1} = a_{i + 3} = a_{i + 5} = ...
  \end{align}

  So we can find out that:

  1. k = 1: never possible
  2. 1 < k < n, odd: not an alternating string
  3. 1 < k < n, even: not all characters same
  4. k = n: non-palindromic string

### [C. Tree Compass](https://codeforces.com/contest/1943/problem/C)

**Solution:**

  We can find out that we can only color two nodes of a line at a time.

  And we may think that if we can color the longer line, then the shorter line can also be satisfied.

  And after simulation by hands, we can find out, if we choose the centre node in the diameter, 
  after coloring the whole diameter, the other lines in the tree can also be colored.

  So we can turn the problem into coloring the diameter.

  If the diameter is odd, we can choose the center node, and choose the distance between $[0, \dfrac{len + 1}{2})$.

  If the diameter is even, we find out that for len = 2 and len = 4, the answer is both 2.
  So we divide it into two conditions:

  1. `len % 4 == 2`: if the center is between $[m_1, m_2]$, then we can choose $[m_1, d \in [0, \dfrac{len}{2})]$ and $[m_2, \dfrac{len}{2}]$.
  And we can find that all the nodes in the tree can be convered.
  2. `len % 4 == 0`: if the center is between $[m_1, m_2]$, then we can choose $[m_1, d \in [1, \dfrac{len}{2}) \wedge (d \mod 2 = 0)]$ and $[m_2, d \in [1, \dfrac{len}{2}) \wedge (d \mod 2 = 0)]$.
  And we can find that all the nodes in the tree can be convered.

## [1946. Codeforces Round 936 (Div. 2)](https://codeforces.com/contest/1946)

### [C. Tree Cutting](https://codeforces.com/contest/1946/problem/C)

**Solution:**

  We can binarily search the answer.

  And to judge the answer, we can greedily cut the tree.
  So soon as the size of subtree is greater or equal to the answer, then we cut it.

  The time complexity is O(nlogn).

### [D. Birthday Gift](https://codeforces.com/contest/1946/problem/D)

**Solution:**

  We can deal with `x` and array `a` bit by bit.

  For the i-th bit, we count all the numbers in the array `a` whose i-th bit is 1, and marks the number as `cnt`. 
  
  1. If `(x >> i & 1) == 1` and `(cnt & 1) == 1` : we don't need to split the array cause no matter how we split it, the i-th bit is always 1.
  2. If `(x >> i & 1) == 1` and `(cnt & 1) == 0` : 

    1. we can make this bit 0, and we don't need to consider the lower bit. We just need to merge the adcent two element of set `s`(s is the set contains every element whose i-th bit is 1). So we can calculate the answer in this condition. 
    2. we can make this bit 1, so we don't need to split it. 

  3. If `(x >> i & 1) == 0` and `(cnt & 1) == 1` : no answer.
  4. If `(x >> i & 1) == 0` and `(cnt & 1) == 0` : the same as `2.a`.

### [E. Girl Permutation](https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1946/E)

**Solution:**

  The condition is invalid only when $a_1 \ne 1$ or $b_{m_2} \ne n$ or $a_{m_1} \ne b_{1}$.

  And for the whole array, we can only determine where is $n$. It's position must be $a_{m_1}$. 

  But for the part before $n$, and the part after $n$, we only care about the relative difference in one part.

  We can choose $a_{m_1} - 1$ numbers from left $n - 1$ numbers. And the quantity of choice is $C_{n - 1}^{a_{m_1} - 1}$.
  And for the front part, the biggest element is determined, and it must be on the position of $a_{m - 1}$, so we need to choose $a_{m_1 - 1} - 1$ numbers in the front of $a_{m - 1}$.
  The quantity of choices is $C_{m_1 - 2}^{a_{m_1 - 1} - 1}$, we also find that the quantity of order between $a_{m_1 - 1}$ and $a_{m_1}$ is $(a_{m_1} - a_{m_1 - 1} - 1)!$.

  And we can do similarly to the left set.
