# [Codeforces Round 934 (Div. 1)](https://codeforces.com/contest/1943)

## [B. Non-Palindromic Substring](https://codeforces.com/contest/1943/problem/B)

**Solution:**

  If a string is not k-th good, the all substring of length k is palindromic.

  So [i ... j] and [i + 1 ... j + 1] is palindromic.

  And in that case, if k is odd, we can know that 

  $$
    a_i = a_{i + 1} = a_{i + 2} = ... = a_j
  $$

  If k is even, we can know that,

  \begin{align}
    a_i = a_{i + 2} = a_{i + 4} = ... \newline
    a_{i + 1} = a_{i + 3} = a_{i + 5} = ...
  \end{align}

  So we can find out that:

  1. k = 1: never possible
  2. 1 < k < n, odd: not an alternating string
  3. 1 < k < n, even: not all characters same
  4. k = n: non-palindromic string

## [C. Tree Compass](https://codeforces.com/contest/1943/problem/C)

**Solution:**

  We can find out that we can only color two nodes of a line at a time.

  And we may think that if we can color the longer line, then the shorter line can also be satisfied.

  And after simulation by hands, we can find out, if we choose the centre node in the diameter, 
  after coloring the whole diameter, the other lines in the tree can also be colored.

  So we can turn the problem into coloring the diameter.

  If the diameter is odd, we can choose the center node, and choose the distance between $[0, \dfrac{len + 1}{2})$.

  If the diameter is even, we find out that for len = 2 and len = 4, the answer is both 2.
  So we divide it into two conditions:

  1. `len % 4 == 2`: if the center is between $[m_1, m_2]$, then we can choose $[m_1, d \in [0, \dfrac{len}{2})]$ and $[m_2, \dfrac{len}{2}]$.
  And we can find that all the nodes in the tree can be convered.
  2. `len % 4 == 0`: if the center is between $[m_1, m_2]$, then we can choose $[m_1, d \in [1, \dfrac{len}{2}) \wedge (d \mod 2 = 0)]$ and $[m_2, d \in [1, \dfrac{len}{2}) \wedge (d \mod 2 = 0)]$.
  And we can find that all the nodes in the tree can be convered.

